# Procedure

## Generation of Lentiviral Vectors
Replication-defective lentivirus was produced by standard methods using a third-generation lentiviral vector transfer plasmid encoding iRFP, an anti-CD19-BBζ CAR or anti-CD33-BBζ CAR mixed with three packaging plasmids encoding VSV-G (pMDG.1), gag/pol (pMDLg/pRRE) and rev (pRSV-rev), and transfected into HEK293T cells using Lipofectamine 2000 (Invitrogen).

## Cells
Peripheral blood leukocytes from healthy donors were obtained from the Human Immunology Core of the University of Pennsylvania. Informed consent was obtained from all participants before collection. All methods and experimental procedures were approved by the University of Pennsylvania Institutional Review Board. Healthy donor T cells were purified at the Human Immunology Core by negative selection using a RosetteSep T cell enrichment cocktail (Stem Cell Technologies). Patient-derived T cells were isolated by positive selection using CD4- and CD8-specific microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) according to the manufacturer's protocols.

All cell lines (Nalm6, MOLM14 and HEK293T) were originally obtained from the American Type Culture Collection. Cells were expanded in RPMI medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum, penicillin and streptomycin at a low passage and tested for mycoplasma contamination. The culture medium was adjusted to pH 7.4. Cell-line authentication was performed by the University of Arizona Genetics Core based on criteria established by the International Cell Line Authentication Committee. Short-tandem-repeat profiling revealed that these cell lines were above the 80% match threshold. All cells were cultured in standard conditions using a humidified incubator with set-points at 5% CO2, 20% O2 and 37 °C.

## Transduction of T Cells
For activated T cells, T cells were resuspended (1×10^6 cells per ml) in X-VIVO 15 medium (Cambrex) supplemented with 5% human AB serum (Valley Biomedical), 2 mM l-glutamine (Cambrex), 20 mM HEPES (Cambrex), and IL-7 and IL-15 (10 ng/ml each, Miltenyi Biotec). Dynabeads human T-activator CD3/CD28 beads (Thermo Fisher) were added to a final ratio of three beads to one cell. After 24 h, lentiviral vector supernatant was added at the indicated multiplicity of infection (MOI). The cells were maintained in culture at a concentration of 0.5×10^6 cells per ml by adjusting the concentration every other day based on counting by flow cytometry using CountBright beads (BD Bioscience) and monoclonal antibodies to human CD4 and CD8. The cell volume was also measured using a Multisizer III particle counter (Beckman-Coulter) every other day.

For non-activated T cells, T cells were resuspended (1×10^6 cells per ml) in RPMI medium containing penicillin and streptomycin as well as 20 mM HEPES for 3–6 h. The T cells were then resuspended (1×10^7 cells per ml) in X-VIVO 15 medium supplemented with 5% human AB serum, 2 mM l-glutamine, 20 mM HEPES, IL-7 and IL-15 (10 ng/ml each), and lentiviral vector supernatant to achieve the desired MOI, as indicated. Integrase (Raltegravir, 1 µM) and RT (Saquinavir, 1 µM; Cayman Chemical) inhibitors, and dNs (50 µM; Sigma) were also added to the medium in some experiments, as indicated.

## Flow Cytometry
T-cell differentiation was assessed using the following antibodies: anti-CCR7–FITC clone 150503 (BD Pharmingen); anti-CD45RO–PE clone UCHL1 and anti-CD8–H7APC clone SK1 (BD Biosciences); and anti-CD4–BV510 clone OKT4, anti-CD3–BV605 clone OKT3, anti-CD14–Pacific Blue clone HCD14 and anti-CD19–Pacific Blue clone H1B19 (BioLegend). The anti-CAR19 idiotype for surface expression of CAR19 was provided by Novartis. Cells were washed with PBS, incubated with LIVE/DEAD fixable violet (Molecular Probes) for 15 min and resuspended in fluorescence activated cell sorting buffer consisting of PBS, 1% BSA and 5 mM EDTA. The cells were then incubated with antibodies for 1 h at 4 °C. Positively stained cells were differentiated from the background using fluorescence-minus-one controls. Flow cytometry was performed on a BD LSR Fortessa system. Analysis was performed using the FlowJo software (Tree Star Inc. version 10.1).

## qPCR Analysis
Genomic DNA was isolated using a QIAamp DNA micro kit (Qiagen). Using 200 ng genomic DNA, qPCR analysis was performed to detect the integrated BBζ CAR transgene sequence using ABI Taqman technology as previously described. To determine the number of transgene copies in the genomic DNA (copies per µg DNA), an eight-point standard curve was generated consisting of 5×10^6 –1×10^6 copies of the BBζ lentivirus plasmid spiked into 100 ng non-transduced control genomic DNA. A primer–probe set specific for the CDKN1A gene, a single-copy gene in the human haploid genome, was used as a normalization control to estimate the number of vector copies per cell. The levels of total and integrated DNA were measured by PCR as previously described.

## In Vivo Models
Xenograft models of leukaemia were used as previously reported. Briefly, 6–10-week-old NOD-SCID γc−/− (NSG) mice, which lack an adaptive immune system, were obtained from Jackson Laboratories or bred in-house under a protocol approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUC) of the University of Pennsylvania. In all experiments, the animals were assigned to treatment/control groups using a randomized approach. The animals were injected via the tail vein with 2×10^6 Nalm6 or 1×10^6 MOLM14 cells expressing click beetle green luciferase and enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) in 0.1 ml sterile PBS. CAR T cells or NTD human T cells were injected via the tail vein at the indicated dose in a volume of 100 µl 4 days after the injection with leukaemic cells. The mice were given an intraperitoneal injection of 150 mg kg−1 d-luciferin (Caliper Life Sciences).

Anaesthetized mice were imaged using a Xenogen IVIS Spectrum system (Caliper Life Science). The total flux was quantified using Living Image 4.4 (PerkinElmer). T-cell engraftment was defined as >1% human CD45+ cells in peripheral blood by flow cytometry. The animals were euthanized at the end of the experiment or when they met pre-specified end points according to the protocols, except for the AML model experiment, which was terminated due to a Coronavirus Disease 2019-related shutdown of research.

## Table 1: Integrated Lentiviral Vector Analysis Using Repetitive Sample Alu-gag qPCR

| Sample                               | RU5 copies per cell | Proviral HIV copies per cell |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------|
| 12 h                                 | 0.19                 | 0.01                          |
| 24 h                                 | 0.16                 | 0.09                          |
| 48 h                                 | 0.55                 | 0.23                          |
| 72 h                                 | 0.69                 | 0.60                          |
| 12 h (RT and integrase inhibitor)    | 0.15                 | <LOD                          |
| 24 h (RT and integrase inhibitor)    | 0.12                 | <LOD                          |
| 48 h (RT and integrase inhibitor)    | 0.07                 | <LOD                          |
| 72 h (RT and integrase inhibitor)    | 0.05                 | <LOD                          |

<LOD, below the limit of detection; RU5, long-terminal repeat (LTR) primer only for total vector (integrated + non-integrated). Comparison of integrated vector (number of proviral HIV copies per cell) with the total vector copies (number of RU5 copies per cell, detected total integrated + non-integrated vector) with or without RT and integrase inhibitors.